This article is about the ability.  For other uses, see Animal Path (disambiguation).
	

Animal Pathedit

畜生道­ (Chikushōdō)

	
		
		
	
	

	Name

	
		English anime

	
	Chikushodo

	
		Alternative names

	
	Animal Realm

	Debut

	
		Manga

	
	Volume #41, Naruto Chapter #374

	
		Anime

	
	Naruto Shippūden Episode #130

	
		Game

	
	Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Heroes 3

	
		Appears in

	
	Anime, Manga, Game

	Data

	
		Classification

	
	Kekkei Genkai, Ninjutsu, Dōjutsu

	
		Class

	
	Offensive, Defensive, Supplementary

	Other jutsu

	
		Parent jutsu

	
	Six Paths Technique

	Derived jutsu

	
	Summoning Rinnegan

	Users

	
	Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki
Madara Uchiha
Nagato
Obito Uchiha
Sasuke Uchiha

The Animal Path (畜生道&#44; Chikushōdō) grants a Rinnegan user the ability of summoning various animals and creatures to aid it in battle.
 These creatures appear to be immortal, as they were killed and later summoned again. Worthy of note, summoning creatures through the Animal Path require no blood sacrifice or hand seals. The Animal Path can also summon people using hand signs, such as the case of Nagato's Paths and Konan. Tactics-wise, the Animal Path's primary role in battle appears to consist of overwhelming multiple opponents with a barrage of summons.

In the case of Nagato, having originally channelled the Animal Path through the corpse of a Fūma clan shinobi and then the corpse of Ajisai in life, the creatures summoned appear to have undergone the same modifications as his Paths of Pain, having chakra receivers embedded in their bodies. Nagato also tends to send the Animal Path first into battle to throw enemies off about the number of enemies they are really facing. As they also display the Rinnegan, the creatures serve as extensions of Nagato.&#91;1&#93; During the Fourth Shinobi World War, Nagato used his summons for transport before being rejuvenated to move on his own power. 

Summons

Giant Drill-Beaked Bird

Giant Multi-Headed Dog

Giant Snake-Tailed Chameleon

Giant Panda

Giant Ox

Giant Rhino

Giant Crustacean

Giant Centipede

The other Paths of Pain

Konan

Influences[]

Buddhists believe that animals inhabit a different dimension separated from humans not spatially but mentally, called the "Tiryagyoni realm"; an unhappy plane of rebirth which revolves around fear, instinct and survival of the fittest, suffered by those animals that work for humans and, above all, by those ignorant to what is happening to them.

References[]

↑ Naruto chapter 551, page 6